## Core-Collapse Supernovae

The fate of a massive star with mass of more than $8$ times the solar mass is spectacular in the end, when it has used up its nuclear energy in creating the Fe core, which has the largest binding energy per particle. When the Fe core mass exceeds the Chandrasekhar mass supported by the degenerate electron pressure against the gravitational force, the Fe core starts to collapse, until the central density becomes approximately that of the normal matter density. There, a strong repulsive force and the Pauli effect among nucleons work against the gravitational collapse and swing the matter motion outwards. If this outward motion is strong enough to blow off the outer layers, stellar explosion is observed as a supernova. This is called a 'prompt explosion'. The strength of the outward shock motion depends crucially on the equation of state (EOS) of the nuclear matter.

The general belief in recent years is, however, that the outward shock propagation alone is not strong enough to create a supernova explosion. Most of the gravitational collapse energy is carried away by neutrinos. If some small fraction of the neutrino energy is dropped in the stellar matter just behind the slowing down shock region, the outward shock motion can survive to blow off the outer material. This is called a 'delayed explosion'.

Whatever the mechanism of the supernova explosion, we need detailed information on the EOS of nuclear matter and also the neutrino reaction rates in nuclear matter in wide ranges of the density and temperature.