## EOS - Hybrid

In the absence of a unified description of cold hadronic and quark matter with a phase transition at high densities, the hybrid star matter equations of state (EoS) must be constructed by matching separate EoS for the pressure that use hadrons ($p_{h}(\mu)$) or deconfined quarks ($p_{q}(\mu)$) as degrees of freedom. The EoS with the higher pressure is the one that is preferred by Nature and describes the bulk thermodynamics. A crossing of both alternative EoS at the critical chemical potential $\mu_{c}$ marks a first-order phase transition fulfilling the condition $p_{h}\left(\mu_{c}\right)=p_{q}\left(\mu_{c}\right)$ for the Maxwell construction.


- DD2 EOS

___

Each neutron star is cold (i.e., thermal energy of constituent nucleons is much smaller than the Fermi energy), because thermal energy inside the neutron stars is significantly reduced by neutrino and photon coolings due to the long-term evolution (typically $\geq 10^{8} yrs$) until the merger. By contrast, after the merger, shocks are generated by hydrodynamic interactions. In particular, when a hypermassive neutron star (HMNS) is formed, spiral arms are developed in its envelope and continuous heating occurs due to the collision between the HMNS and spiral arms. By this process the maximum temperature increases to $\sim 30-50 \mathrm{MeV}$, and hence, copious neutrinos are emitted. To accurately study the evolution of the hot HMNS with a physical modelling, we have to incorporate microphysical processes such as neutrino emission and equation of state (EOS) based on a theory for the high-density and high-temperature nuclear matter.


During the evolution, the EOS is supplemented by a thermal component of the form

$$
P_{\mathrm{th}}=\Gamma_{\mathrm{th}} \rho\left(\epsilon-\epsilon_{\mathrm{cold}}\right)
$$
choosing $\Gamma_{\mathrm{th}}=1.8$.


