## The Issues of Mismodelling Gravitational-Wave Data for Parameter Estimation

- **Author**: Edy O, Lundgren A, Nuttall L K.
- **Summary**:
	- The posterior of estimated waveform parameters is no longer valid under the assumption of stationarity.
		- Detector noise is typically modelled as stationary, although data from the LIGO and Virgo detectors is not stationary.
	- Our goal is to determine the effect that non-stationary noise will have on the estimated parameters.
		- Mismodelling the data in this way will not bias the parameters, but will affect the width of the posterior.
- **Link**: [[GW - Parameter Estimate]], [[Bayesian Inference]]
- [ADS](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2021arXiv210107743E) Edy O, Lundgren A, Nuttall L K. The Issues of Mismodelling Gravitational-Wave Data for Parameter Estimation. arXiv:2101.07743.

___

## Highlight

 - The most widely used inference codes for gravitational waves are LALInference, Bilby, and PyCBC Inference.
	 - These assume that the instrumental noise is both stationary and Gaussian.
		 - Note that we define stationarity to mean that the statistical properties of the noise do not change with time.
		 - Gaussian noise can be completely characterised by its mean and covariance, where the noise covariance represents random noise characteristics of the data.
		 - The assumption of stationarity and Gaussianity is taken instead, simply as matter of practicality because it enables a much simpler form for the likelihood to be used.
	 - In reality, the gravitational-wave strain data from the LIGO and Virgo detectors is not stationary or Gaussian.
		 - This could mean that uncertainties for parameters inferred from the system could be much smaller or larger than they really are.